---
head.title: 'Create a New Project with Spin - Spin by Server Side Up'
title: 'Create a New Project with Spin'
description: 'Learn how to create a new project with Spin.'
layout: docs
---

# Create a project with Spin
::lead-p
Getting up an running with Spin is very easy. It's recommended to install Spin globally so you can easily create new projects. Follow the installation instructions for [macOS](/docs/installation/install-macos/), [Linux](/docs/installation/install-linux), or [Windows](/docs/installation/install-windows) before continuing. We'll walk you through the process of creating a new Laravel project with Spin.
::

## Finding a project on "Spin Hub"
We created a [community hub](/hub) where you can find templates created by the Spin team and the community. We're in the early stages of development, but [anyone can create their own template](/docs/advanced/create-your-own-template) and we will publish it to Spin Hub for you.

## Let's create a new Laravel project
For our example, we will use the "Laravel" template from Spin Hub. We have a command called `spin new`, which will take care of the heavy lifting for you

::code-panel
---
label: "Create a new Laravel project called \"my-billion-dollar-idea\""
---
```bash
spin new laravel my-billion-dollar-idea
```
::

This will create a project in your current directory called `my-billion-dollar-idea`. You can also specify a path to create the project in a different directory.

<p>
    <video autoplay muted loop playsinline>
        <source src="https://spin-public-assets.serversideup.net/spin-demo_spin-up-pro.mp4"/>
    </video>
</p>

Assuming you completed the prerequisites, the onboard wizard will take you through the process so you can get a local development environment with `spin up`.

## Starting the development environment
Next, we'll start the development environment with `spin up`.

[Starting up your Development Environment →](/docs/development-environment/starting-up-your-development-environment)