---
head.title: 'Contributing - Spin by Server Side Up'
title: 'Contributing'
description: 'Learn how to contribute to Spin.'
layout: docs
---
# Contributing
::lead-p
We're beyond grateful for your interest in contributing to the Spin project. We're always looking for ways to improve the project and we're excited to see what you have to offer.
::

## Before submitting a PR
- Please be intentional and clear in your proposal
- If you're looking to add a new feature, it may be a good idea to open an issue first to discuss the feature

## Improving the documentation
All docs are located under `docs/`. In there is a "Nuxt Content" site. Read `docs/README.md` for more information on how to run the docs locally.

## Installing a local development copy of Spin
If you'd like to install a copy for development, clone your fork and add this to your shell profile:

::code-panel
---
label: Add an alias to your shell profile
---
```bash
export PATH="/path/to/the-project/spin/bin:$PATH"
```
::

You you point `spin` on to your project, you'll be able to easily test changes before submitting a pull request.

## Development dependencies
Other than having a working Docker Desktop or Docker Engine installation -- the only other dependency is running Bash v3 or higher. This means there literally are not any other dependencies to install. 🥳

## Installing a specific version of Spin by the branch
The install script allows you to install a specific branch of Spin. This is useful if you want to test a new feature or bug fix before it's released.

::note
If the install command is the feature being changed/tested, change the `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/serversideup/spin/main/tools/install.sh` to the branch you're testing.
::

::code-panel
---
label: Install a test version of Spin
---
```bash
BRANCH="release/2.0" bash -c "$(curl -fsSL -H "Cache-Control: no-cache" https://raw.githubusercontent.com/serversideup/spin/main/tools/install.sh)"
```
::

::code-panel
---
label: Testing a local installation script
---
```bash
bash -c "$(cat /path/to/the-project/spin/tools/install.sh)"
```
::

## Knowing your way around the code
- `bin/spin` - This is the main entry point for the `spin` command. This file is responsible for parsing the arguments and calling the appropriate function.
- `lib/functions.sh` - This file contains all of the functions that are called by `bin/spin`.
- `lib/actions/` - This directory contains all of the actions that are called by `bin/spin`. Each action is a file that contains a function with the same name as the file. For example, `lib/actions/init.sh` contains a function called `init`. This function is called by `bin/spin` when the `init` action is called.