---
head.title: 'Create your own Spin Template - Spin by Server Side Up'
title: 'Create your own Spin Template'
description: 'Learn how to create your own Spin template.'
layout: docs
---

# Create your own Spin Template
::lead-p
Starting with Spin v2.0, anyone can create a Spin template and publish them on GitHub. Users can run `spin new {{your-template}}` to get up and running in seconds.
::

## Official Templates vs Community Templates
You may see some references to commands like `spin new laravel`. These are official templates that are maintained by the Spin team.

If you want to use a community template, you simply append the repo organization and template name to the `spin new` command. For example, `spin new serversideup/spin-template-laravel-basic`:

::code-panel
---
label: Use the "serversideup/spin-template-laravel-basic" template
---
```bash
spin new serversideup/spin-template-laravel-basic
```
::

You can see in this case, we're just appending `serversideup/spin-template-laravel-basic` to the `spin new` command which will then prompt the user if they trust that repository to install.

::responsive-image
---
src: /images/docs/community-templates/spin-new-community-template.png
alt: 'GitHub Actions: Zero-downtime Deployment'
maxWidth: 500
---
::

## Structuring your repository
You can check out the [serversideup/spin-template-laravel-basic](https://github.com/serversideup/spin-template-laravel-basic) project to get a feel for how to structure your repository. Here are some key points:

### meta.yml
This file is required and contains the metadata for your template. Spin will load the data from here to show where users can report bugs, get help, contribute to your project, and more.

Here's an example of a `meta.yml` file:

::code-panel
---
label: meta.yml
---
```yaml
---
title: My Awesome Project Template
authors:
  - John Smith (@johnsmith)
  - Susan Doe (@susandoe)
description: My awesome project template is the best template ever.
repository: https://github.com/example/my-awesome-project-template
issues: https://github.com/example/my-awesome-project-template/issues
```
::

Be sure to replace the values with your own information and completely fill out the `meta.yml` file.

### template/ directory
This is where you place your template files for Docker Compose and Docker Swarm. Be sure to follow the structure of:

- Base Docker Compose File: `docker-compose.yml`
- Development Docker Compose File: `docker-compose.dev.yml`
- Production Docker Compose File: `docker-compose.prod.yml`

You can also put any configurations under `.infrastructure/conf/` if you need to provide any default configurations for your project.

### install.sh
This file is required for Spin to install or initialize your template for a project. Spin someone runs `spin new` or `spin init`, it will load this file from your repository and execute what you have in this file.

Take special note of the two separate actions of `new` (creating a new project with your template) and `init` (adding your templates to an existing project). Your project must support both of these actions.

Inside of your `install.sh` file, you can choose what get's executed by organizing your file to have two bash functions:

- `new()`
- `init()`

In our templates, when someone calls `new`, there are usually a few steps to do, but then we call `init` because there's a lot of overlap that can be shared between the two actions. This means you can call `init` from `new` to share the same code.

[See our install.sh file](https://github.com/serversideup/spin-template-laravel-basic/blob/main/install.sh) for the serversideup/spin-template-laravel-basic template for an example.

### post-install.sh
This file is optional and is used to run any additional commands after the `install.sh` file has been executed. This is useful for running any additional commands that need to be run after the template has been installed.

You can review [our init source code](https://github.com/serversideup/spin/blob/main/lib/actions/init.sh) to see exactly when this file is executed.

### README.md
This file is extremely important. It's the first thing users will see when they visit your repository. Be sure to include a description of your template, how to use it, and any other important information for people to get started.

## Testing your template
Before publishing, be sure to test your template a number of times between adding a new project and initializing into an existing project. This will help you prevent any issues that users may run into.

You can also provide a branch to download with the `--branch` option if you're working on a new feature or bug fix. This way, users can test your changes before you merge them into your `main` branch.

::code-panel
---
label: Test a branch
---
```bash
spin new serversideup/spin-template-laravel-basic --branch test-branch
```
::

## Publishing your template
Once you're ready to publish your template, simply push to your `main` branch on GitHub. Users can then run `spin new {{your-template}}` to get up and running in seconds.

## Getting your template listed on the community
We're working on a way to list community templates on the Spin website. If you're interested in having your template listed, [please open a Discussion on GitHub](https://github.com/serversideup/spin/discussions) and we'll get you added to the list.