---
head.title: 'Install to macOS - Spin by Server Side Up'
title: 'Install to macOS'
description: 'Learn how to install Spin on macOS. No root access required.'
layout: docs
canonical: https://serversideup.net/open-source/spin/docs/installation/install-macos
---

# Install to macOS
::lead-p
Spin easily runs on any macOS machine that runs Docker Desktop. Getting started is as simple as installing Docker Desktop, then running a single command to install `spin`.
::

## Install Docker Desktop
MacOS does not ship with Docker by default. To get Docker installed, you will need "Docker Desktop", which is the official desktop tool developed by Docker.

[Learn how to install Docker Desktop →](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/install/)

## Download and install `spin`
Once Docker is installed, you are now ready to install `spin`. Run the installer with this simple command in your terminal. **No root permissions required.**

::code-panel
---
label: Install spin to your machine (no root permissions required)
---
```bash
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/serversideup/spin/main/tools/install.sh)"
```
::

The above script will install spin at the _user_ level in `~/.spin`, using less than 300KB of storage.

::note
Spin will prompt you if you want Spin to modify your PATH variable. If you press "Yes" follow the instructions on the screen. If you press "No" you will need to manually add Spin to your PATH.
::


## Configuring your PATH variable manually
If you did not add `spin` to your PATH during the installation, you can manually add it to your PATH by adding this to your shell profile:

::note
Run `echo $0` in your terminal to figure out which shell you are using.
::

::code-panel
---
label: Add spin to your path
---
```bash
# Add this to `~/.zshrc` or `~/.bash_profile`
export PATH="$HOME/.spin/bin:$PATH"
```
::

In order to apply the changes to your current terminal session, you will need to run the `source` command.

::code-panel
---
label: Use the "source" command to apply your profile changes immediately
---
```bash
# If you're using ZSH
source ~/.zshrc

# If you're using Bash
source ~/.bash_profile
```
::

## Validate it's working
You should be able to run this and get a result 🥳

::code-panel
---
label: Confirm spin is working correctly by getting the version
---
```bash
spin version
```
::