---
head.title: 'Install via NPM/Yarn - Spin by Server Side Up'
title: 'Install via NPM/Yarn'
description: 'Spin can be installed using NPM or Yarn, two popular JavaScript package managers. This enables you to make Spin accessible without other developers doing any steps on their end.'
layout: docs
canonical: https://serversideup.net/open-source/spin/docs/installation/install-npm-yarn
---

# Install via NPM/Yarn
::lead-p
Spin can be installed using NPM or Yarn, two popular JavaScript package managers. This enables you to make Spin accessible without other developers doing any steps on their end.
::

## Add `spin` to your project with Yarn/NPM
Installing `spin` at the project level is a great way to deploy `spin` without much configuration from the user's end. [View `spin` on NPM →](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@serversideup/spin)

We can use Docker to run install `spin` on your project. **Run this command from the parent folder of your project.**

::note
The examples below are using `node:latest`. Be sure to change the image name to match your version of Node that you're using for your project. [See available versions →](https://hub.docker.com/_/node/)
::

::code-panel
---
label: Install `spin` with Yarn + Docker
---
```bash
docker run --rm -v  $(pwd):/usr/app/src -w /usr/app/src/ node yarn add @serversideup/spin --dev
```
::

::code-panel
---
label: Install `spin` with NPM + Docker
---
```bash
docker run --rm -v  $(pwd):/usr/app/src -w /usr/app/src/ node npm install @serversideup/spin --dev
```
::

## Spin is installed 🥳
You should now be able to access `spin` by running the command below.

::code-panel
---
label: Run `spin` from your project
---
```bash
./node_modules/.bin/spin up
```
::

### Bonus Tip: Use an alias
Rather than typing `./node_modules/.bin/spin` every time, you can add a "smart alias", which will check to see if it exists in your `node_modules`, if not, it loads it from the `vendor` folder.

You can add the following below to your `~/.bash_profile` or your `~/.zshrc`.

::code-panel
---
label: Add to your shell profile (recommended)
---
```bash
alias spin='[ -f node_modules/.bin/spin ] && bash node_modules/.bin/spin || bash vendor/bin/spin'
```
::

You'll now be able to access `spin` from your project root directory.

## Initialize Your Project
Once Spin is installed, you can follow the initialization wizard for your project by running `spin init`.

::code-panel
---
label: Initialize Spin with your project
---
```bash
spin init
```
::