---
head.title: 'Starting Up Your Development Environment - Spin by Server Side Up'
title: 'Starting Up Your Development Environment'
description: 'Learn how to start up your development environment with Spin.'
layout: docs
---

# Starting up your Development Environment
::lead-p
Spin uses Docker Compose to start up your development environment in a single command. This allows you to exactly replicate your production environment for local development.
::

<p>
    <video autoplay muted loop playsinline>
        <source src="https://spin-public-assets.serversideup.net/spin-demo_spin-up-pro.mp4"/>
    </video>
</p>

## Prerequisites
- Docker is installed and running.
- Spin is installed to your system or to your project (via composer or as a node dependency).

## Ensure your application dependencies are installed
Before you can bring up your development environment, you need to ensure your application dependencies are installed.

::note
If you just ran `spin new` to create a project, the application dependencies will already be installed. You can skip this step.
::

::code-panel
---
label: Install dependencies (this depends on your project)
---
```bash
# PHP dependencies
spin run php composer install

# Node dependencies
spin run node yarn install
```
::

## Bring up your development environment
Once your dependencies are installed, you can bring up your development environment with the following command:

::note
Make sure to run this command from your project directory.
::

::code-panel
---
label: Bring up your development environment
---
```bash
spin up
```
::

::note
To stop your development environment, press `Ctrl+C`.
::

Since Spin is running Docker Compose, you can also pass any argument to the `up` command. For example, `spin up -d` will start your development environment in detached mode. See the full documentation for [spin up](/docs/command-reference/up) for more information.

## Accessing your development environment
In order to access your development environment, review the README of the template you're using. Each template has different instructions on how to access the services.
