---
head.title: 'Add Spin to an Existing Project - Spin by Server Side Up'
title: 'Add Spin to an Existing Project'
description: 'Learn how to add Spin to an existing project.'
layout: docs
---

# Add Spin to an Existing Project
::lead-p
Adding Spin to an existing project is easy. Everything works through the `spin init` command, we'll ask you a few questions, then you'll be on your way to shipping a 100% replicated application.
::

## Install Spin
We have a number of ways to install Spin. Pick any one.

- [Install to macOS](/docs/installation/install-macos/)
- [Install to Windows](/docs/installation/install-windows)
- [Install to Linux](/docs/installation/install-linux)
- [Install via Composer](/docs/installation/install-composer)
- [Install via NPM/Yarn](/docs/installation/install-npm-yarn)

::note
Moving forward, this guide assumes you configured `spin` as an alias or installed it locally on your machine.
::

## Initialize Spin
Run this command in the root of your project:

::code-panel
---
label: "Initialize Spin"
---
```bash
spin init
```
::

The wizard will ask you some questions and then you'll be on your way to shipping your application.

<p>
    <video autoplay muted loop playsinline>
        <source src="https://spin-public-assets.serversideup.net/spin-demo_spin-init.mp4"/>
    </video>
</p>

## File Structure
::note
Spin will not overwrite any files. It will only create files that don't exist. If you already have a `Dockerfile`, `docker-compose.yml` file, etc., it is recommended to make a new branch, delete those files, then run `spin init`.
::

### Spin will create the following files & directories:
- `.infrastructure/`
- `.spin.yml`
- `.spin-inventory.ini` (it's just an [Ansible inventory file](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/inventory_guide/intro_inventory.html))
- `docker-compose.yml`
- `docker-compose.dev.yml`
- `docker-compose.ci.yml`
- `docker-compose.prod.yml`
- `Dockerfile` (if you use the Laravel template)

### Spin will modify the following files:
- `.gitignore`
- `.dockerignore`

## Next Steps
[Prepare Your Servers for Spin →](/docs/guide/preparing-your-servers-for-spin)