---
head.title: 'Server Requirements - Spin by Server Side Up'
title: 'Server Requirements'
description: 'Learn the requirements for running Spin.'
layout: docs
canonical: https://serversideup.net/open-source/spin/docs/server-configuration/server-requirements
---

# Server Requirements
::lead-p
Spin gives you the power to choose any host that you want. Although the responsibility is on your shoulders to get a server set up, Spin makes it very easy to get this accomplished.
::

## Choose a host
We've run [VPS Benchmarks against a number of hosts](https://521dimensions.notion.site/VPS-Benchmarks-for-Self-hosters-c6eca7c5f16d4bb8aeb989174fc58ffe?pvs=4) and have found the following hosts to have great value. The links below are referral links, meaning we get a small kickback if you sign up -- but this doesn't affect our recommendations.

### Hetzner
Hetzner is a German-based company with data centers in the EU and the US. Their pricing is very competitive and they have incredible performance.

With the link below, they offer â‚¬â 20 (~$21 USD) credits free which can get you a server for a few months.

[Sign Up with Hetzner â†’](https://hetzner.cloud/?ref=lhLUIrkdUPhl)

### Vultr
Vultr is a US-based company that has a great reputation for performance and value. They have a wide range of data centers around the world and a great API for automation.

With the link below, they are offering $100 in credits -- which can get you quite a bit for a few months.

[Sign Up with Vultr â†’](https://www.vultr.com/?ref=9627777-8H)

### Digital Ocean
Digital Ocean is a US-based company that has data centers all around the world. Although their performance generally lacks compared to other providers, there are so many resources that natively support their offerings.

With the link below, they are offering $200 in credits over 60 days.

[Sign Up with Digital Ocean â†’](https://m.do.co/c/f3bad4b927ca)

### Any other host
Spin is host-agnostic, meaning you can run Spin anywhere. If you have a preferred host, you can use them as well. Just make sure that your host meets the following requirements below.

## Recommended Server Specs
::note
Note if you use any of our supported providers in the left sidebar, we'll automatically configure everything for you. ðŸ¤“
::

Hardware specs largely depend on your project, but even for simple apps, we recommend the following:

- **CPU**: 1 CPU core
- **RAM**: 1GB
- **Storage**: >25GB SSD
- **Architecture**: x86_64 (64-bit) [[request ARM64 support](https://github.com/serversideup/spin/discussions/9)]
- **Operating System**: Ubuntu 22.04 LTS or newer
- **Snapshots/Backups**: Highly recommended
- **Firewall**: Configured to allow SSH and HTTPS traffic (22/tcp, 80/tcp, 443/tcp, 2222/tcp)
- **Access**: Root SSH access is required

**Spin requires a fresh server installation.** Do not install Spin on servers that already have control panels (like Plesk, cPanel) or other server management tools (like Laravel Forge) installed, as this can cause configuration conflicts.

## Next steps
The next step is to understand how servers work with Spin.

[Learn how servers work with Spin â†’](/docs/server-configuration/server-configuration-basics)
